Game engine…. GAME EEEEENGIIINE(like sheesh).
What is a game engine?
A game engine is a software framework primarily designed for the development of video games, and genially includes relevant libraries and support programs.
PHA! Sounds like something your grandma would use! So I’m gonna make a game without this nonsense. Imma make an engineless game. But how is a game going to run without a game engine?(squeaque voice) Well Im going to make it using the SFML library and C++ of course. “But you haven’t used C++ until now”. Hah… like that would be a problem.
First. SFML
I had to learn how to use it, and I needed to get used writing code with c++ as well. I decided to start with the small stuff.
In the end SFML was fairly simple:
Make sprite.
Give texture.
Set position.
Draw sprite.
Then change stuff every frame.
Cool.
I noticed this game jam on itch, Black And White game jam which timing was ideal.
Theme was “Loop”.
I started doing stuff without having a plan.
The only things I had planned were that the game was going to be black and white and there would be a player. So I started with the player.
I didn’t really know how the player would look like, and I didn’t use a reference, because as they once said to me in Brazil. “Oi, reference users equals losers”
I just let my hand free and settled with one of my first tries, which turned out… not bad (sweet). Then I made some animations.
Of course not everything went as smooth as butter, but development was going well… for now(stop music)
It was time to make some bricks.
Im not too happy with how the code for spawning them works.
Let’s say that’s the screen.
I make 4 arrays of bricks
And place them on each side of the screen.
I wish I made all bricks into 1 array or at least an array of arrays. The reason being that whenever I want to do something with the bricks I have to access all arrays individually which just takes a lot of time.

Meet Bob.
He can say Hey!
I really wanted to achieve this effect of typing text animation, which undertale has: (show effect)
But that would mean that I’d have to use multi-threading, which I wasn’t sure exactly how with c++. (show discord) It took me 2 days… TWO DAYS… 

BUT WAIT! (reverse sound effect)
I don’t really have an idea for what the game is going to be!
I couldn’t think of anything, so I asked my little brother.
So the purpose of the game is to leave the room, and when you do, you’d end up in the same room, cus loop… . Then when you get to your 3rd or 4th loop, the room is going to flip upside-down. Then the whole game just loops. My brother had thought of lots of more stuff, but time was tight.
For the going out of the room, I was thinking for some kind of door, but again… time – tight. So in the end I just made a Boolean, and if it’s true, 2 of the bricks don’t render. And it’s all random. 
Now… the rotating was pretty easy, considering that the RendererWindow of SFML has this “view” option that works similarly as a camera looking at a plane.
Then I just rotate the view and… weee..
 
Music
For the music I use DefleMask. It’s still one of my first times making music so don’t judge.
This was my first try at making a music loop (play music), which I recognized as trash.
Then I made “Once A Hero”, which turned out a lot better.
However it didn’t quite fit the game I was making
So I tried again making “Meet Bob” which fit the game perfectly if you ask me, also I had like 6 hours until deadline.
So that’s how the game looks like in the end.
